Task 4 
Gaze: game adaptive zone of engagement/ salman 
Introduction : 
 Gaze is an adaptive game hosting engagement coaching system that is designed to run on the pepper robot. it turns pepper into a responsive companion that plays both mathematical and letter countdown games while observing and adapting to the human. Gaze is a multi-signal emotional inference engine as the system cross validates three live data streams: facial expression recognition for emotional states, speech expression recognition and am engagement tracking feature that monitors response time, silence time and answer accuracy. Using these features helps recognising real emotional states and reduce risk or misleading readings for example a neutral face with slow responses and low accuracy means disengagement however tense expressions with fast and correct responses means focus. 
Inspired by assistive robots gaze role is to keep users engaged. To ensure that it’s doing its job gaze detects when attention is fading and steps in to reengage by changing difficulty level and offering hints if the user is struggling. The questions are generated dynamically using Open AI which also verifies answers and shapes the answers based on users inferred state. The speech is transcribed using whisper which allows the system to freely form answers with responses combine speech, gestures and LED feedback. All progress is saved making gaze a system that doesn’t just host games but also adapts and coaches 

Testing, Results and system analysis /salman 
Overview 
Gaze was evaluated through local mode on laptop and using the Nao robot in labs. Each session involving a participant seated opposite pepper robot engaging in a game and testing each feature and the outcome. The local mode allowed continuous iteration and was replacing the robots camera and microphone with the laptops while keeping everything else the same.
local testing 
The majority of the testing was done through local mode allowing to test the system calibration, recording, openAI question generation, question validation, facial expression detection and session save and resume to be tested without needing the robot. all the issues were detected and solved during the local testing like whisper hallucinations and question generation and validation as after first testing the system was showing correct to false answers so a validation function was added. After iteration testing the system was repeating the same questions and to fix it GPT5.4 was used to ban questions that were used forcing it to create new questions and save each session instead of every 5 as some people won’t play 5 questions and to make sure their progress is saved all time it was changed to save every round.  One of the main set backs was hallucinations as when the mic captures ambient noise whisper would return youtube phrases from the training data rather than emptying the string this was fixed using Solero VAD as a check before whisper and banned words list for the common hallucinations however  with short words like yes or fresh were sometimes dropped as logprob scores were bellow threshold to balance it the threshold was turned down from -0.85 to 1.3 after iteration testing making it rejecting hallucination from short answers. 
Lab session testing
The testing with the robot was conducted through 6 lab sessions with the Nao robot which had hardware that the system wasn’t tested on yet. The ambient noise calibration returned level of zero energy as the get front mic energy wasn’t supported on the Nao robot means that silence detection never triggered and robot records the full duration around 15 seconds each rather than stopping after speech detected which caused longer responses compared to local mode. The recording max was reduced from 8 to 6 seconds to help the long replies.  A hybrid mode was also introduced using external camera and microphone from the laptop for better facial expression detection and speech detection while still interacting with the robot. this solved the silence detection issue as the laptop microphone supports the energy calibration so the system can detect when the user has stopped speaking now and stop recording after it detects 2 seconds of silence rather than waiting the whole speech max duration.  The hybrid mode also  improved facial expression detection as the laptop camera shows a more clear image of the users face compared to the Nao robot as its important to establish the state as sit relies on facial expressions and this change resulted in better state detection giving more accurate results. 
During the robot testing it was noted that the robot gesture movement wasn’t smooth and was too fast which was a robot safety concern as could lead to robots arm it getting stuck or hitting its body while performing a gesture. The interpolation time for all joint movements were increased from 1 second to 2-3 seconds and a safe park as a checkpoint before any movement is made its set into the safe position then goes away from body to ensure it doesn’t hit then arm goes up to perform the gesture. This change made the gesture movements safer and smoother to meet safety standards. 
it was noted that gestures were firing too much slowing the interaction down and having more attention on gestures rather than the game. The gesture logic was reviewed then reduced so that the robot only waves at the start of the session to say hello as a welcoming and when a user gets a correct answer as a celebration he waves twice to make it different from a hello wave and at the end of a session as a goodbye. This change keeps the gesture meaningful and doesn’t draw too much attention rather than the game and interrupting the conversations and responses by slowing them down with gestures. 

